



Network Working Group                                          S. Romijn
Internet-Draft                                            Reliably Coded
Updates: 2622, 4012 (if approved)                             J. Bensley
Intended status: Informational                           Inter.link GmbH
Expires: 18 August 2025                                 14 February 2025


              Registry scoped members for RPSL set objects
              draft-romijn-rpsl-registry-scoped-members-00

Abstract

   This document updates [RFC2622] and [RFC4012] by specifying src-
   members, a new attribute on as-set and route-set objects in the
   Routing Policy Specification Language (RPSL).  This attribute allows
   a specific registry to be defined for each member in a set, avoiding
   problematic ambiguity when resolving set members.  A new validation
   rule allows gradual upgrades and backwards compatibility.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 18 August 2025.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.











Romijn & Bensley         Expires 18 August 2025                 [Page 1]

Internet-Draft  Registry scoped members for RPSL set obj   February 2025


   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
     1.1.  Requirements Language . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   2.  The src-members attribute . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
     2.1.  as-set class  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
     2.2.  route-set class . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
     2.3.  Resolving members through src-members . . . . . . . . . .   5
   3.  Relation to (mp-)members  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
     3.1.  Additional validation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
     3.2.  Automatic generation of (mp-)members  . . . . . . . . . .   7
     3.3.  Multiple references to the same primary key . . . . . . .   8
   4.  IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
   5.  Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
   6.  Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
   Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9

1.  Introduction

   The Routing Policy Specification Language (RPSL) [RFC2622] defines
   the as-set and route-set objects, extended in [RFC4012].  These are
   among the most common objects in the Internet Routing Registry (IRR)
   system.  These sets can either reference a direct member of the set
   (such as an AS number, IP prefix, etc.), or additional sets which
   themselves have their own direct members and/or reference yet more
   sets, ad infinitum.  In both cases, this referencing uses the members
   and mp-members attributes [RFC4012].  Server and client software can
   follow these references to resolve a set down to its members, a set
   of prefixes or ASes.

   A set may refer to another set by including the primary key in its
   (mp-)members attribute.  The referred set may be in the same or in
   another IRR registry.  It is not possible to specify the IRR registry
   of the referred set.  This can lead to primary key collisions when
   resolving a set:

   1.  There are multiple significant IRR registries.





Romijn & Bensley         Expires 18 August 2025                 [Page 2]

Internet-Draft  Registry scoped members for RPSL set obj   February 2025


   2.  Sets often reference objects in registries other than the
       registry the set itself is stored in.

   3.  There is no guaranteed uniqueness of object primary keys amongst
       the different registries.

   4.  Hence, multiple objects may exist in the IRR system with the same
       primary key, making references to them ambiguous.

   5.  Many IRR servers will mirror data from multiple IRR registries,
       meaning that even within a single server, there are usually
       collisions.

   The ambiguity encountered when resolving set members can result in
   either an incorrect RPSL object being chosen, because an object with
   the same primary key was retrieved from the wrong IRR registry, or
   the required RPSL object (which does exist) is not found, because the
   resolving process didn't try to retrieve the object from the correct
   IRR registry.  "Incorrect" and "wrong" in this context meaning: not
   as intended or expected by the operator.

   Including members from the incorrect RPSL object can result in the
   computation of unintentional routing policy information, which is
   then deployed to network infrastructure.  That could cause route
   leaking, or worse, aid in route hijacking.  This has been seen
   multiple times on the public Internet.

   If intended policies are not included, because the object was not
   found, prefixes that should be accepted, are not, and the prefixes
   are not reachable.

   With either case, routing policy information may end up missing and
   connectivity may be disrupted.

   There is no current way to prevent such ambiguity during set member
   resolution, both for operators who create the legitimate objects and
   those who try to resolve them.

   Two previous enhancements to reduce set name collisions have been
   standardized.  However, the problem persists:

   *  [RFC2622] Section 5.1 defines hierarchical set names, such as
      AS65000:AS-EXAMPLE which may also have additional authorization
      requirements for the referred aut-num.  However, this
      authorization only works within a single IRR registry, and doesn't
      allow the correct external IRR to be specified, if the object in
      question is not local to the IRR registry storing the referring
      set.



Romijn & Bensley         Expires 18 August 2025                 [Page 3]

Internet-Draft  Registry scoped members for RPSL set obj   February 2025


   *  [RFC2725] Section 9.6 defines external repository (IRR)
      references.  This allows for the correct IRR registry to be
      specified for a set member object by using the SOURCE:: notation
      however, this syntax isn't supported in the members field of set
      objects.

   To solve this, this document adds src-members to as-set and route-set
   objects, using a IRR registry name prefix with a double colon.  For
   example: "RIPE::AS-EXAMPLE", to refer specifically to an object "AS-
   EXAMPLE" in the IRR registry "RIPE".  This format is already widely
   used informally by operators, including in platforms such as
   PeeringDB.  Continued availability of existing (mp-)members
   attributes together with new validation rules, ensures backwards
   compatibility.

1.1.  Requirements Language

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

2.  The src-members attribute

2.1.  as-set class

   The new src-members attribute on as-set is similar to the members
   attribute from [RFC2622], except that the AS set name MUST be
   prefixed with a registry name and a double colon.

   Attribute:
      src-members

   Value:
      list of ([as-number] or [registry-name]::[as-set-name])

   Type:
      optional, multi-valued

2.2.  route-set class

   The new src-members attribute on route-set is similar to the mp-
   members attribute from [RFC4012], except that any references to set
   names MUST be prefixed with a registry name and a double colon.

   Attribute:
      src-members



Romijn & Bensley         Expires 18 August 2025                 [Page 4]

Internet-Draft  Registry scoped members for RPSL set obj   February 2025


   Value:
      list of ([ipv4-address-prefix-range] or [ipv6-address-prefix-
      range] or [registry-name]::[route-set-name] or [registry-
      name]::[as-set-name] or [as-number] or [registry-name]::[route-
      set-name][range-operator])

   Type:
      optional, multi-valued

2.3.  Resolving members through src-members

   When IRR software processes a query, and is resolving the members of
   a set which has a src-members attribute, the resolver MUST NOT
   consider the contents of the members or mp-members attribute.  This
   is consistent with [RFC2622] section 10.2.

   To find the referred set, the resolver MUST match on both the IRR
   registry name and the set's primary key.  If the IRR registry is
   unknown to the resolver, no set can match the reference.

   When an as-set/route-set does not contain an src-members attribute,
   the resolver SHOULD consider the values of members and mp-members.
   These objects may be encountered if they were created or updated
   before adoption of src-members, or the objects have not been updated
   since.  If references are found to a set, and there are multiple sets
   with this primary key known to the resolver, the behavior is not
   defined by this document as this was a previously existing problem.

   Note that the restriction to a specific IRR registry name is only
   used to select the correct IRR registry to retrieve the referred
   object and its attributes.  During recursive resolving, if that set
   has references to further sets, those MUST be retrieved from a
   potentially different registry (either the registry specified in the
   src-members attribute if that attribute is present, or the existing
   source selection algorithm the IRR server currently uses if resolving
   using (mp-)members).  In other words, the restriction of the lookup
   to a specific IRR registry does not cascade.

   Example:












Romijn & Bensley         Expires 18 August 2025                 [Page 5]

Internet-Draft  Registry scoped members for RPSL set obj   February 2025


   route-set: RS-FIRST
   src-members: RIPE::RS-SECOND
   source: EXAMPLE

   route-set: RS-SECOND
   members: RS-THIRD
   source: RIPE

   route-set: RS-THIRD
   members: AS65000
   source: OTHER

                  Figure 1: Objects for recursive lookups

   To perform a recursive resolve of RS-FIRST, the IRR software looks up
   RS-FIRST, then looks up RS-SECOND in the RIPE registry, then looks
   for RS-THIRD in any registry enabled for this query.  If all
   mentioned registries are enabled, RS-FIRST would resolve to AS64500.

3.  Relation to (mp-)members

   Existing IRR software will not be aware of the new src-members
   attribute and instead refer to (mp-)members.  This is also why the
   existing attributes are not modified - this existing software would
   consider e.g.  RIPE::AS-EXAMPLE as the full primary key of a set, and
   fail to look up the reference as intended.

   Existing IRR objects may also not be updated with src-members for
   some time, as this cannot be done automatically.  Deployment in both
   software and objects will be a gradual process, however, even partial
   deployment will reduce the potential for issues from reference
   mixups.

   In order to keep support for existing IRR software, the contents of
   src-members must match (mp-)members as close as possible, which the
   IRR server will ensure.

3.1.  Additional validation

   When an authoritative IRR registry processes a set object with a src-
   members attribute, it MUST validate that the union of values in
   members and mp-members is equal to the values of src-members with the
   registry names removed from set references.  All values MUST be
   combined, regardless if they were listed in one attribute, or in
   multiple repetitions of the attribute.






Romijn & Bensley         Expires 18 August 2025                 [Page 6]

Internet-Draft  Registry scoped members for RPSL set obj   February 2025


   This ensures that the new src-members can be used, providing the
   benefits for updated resolver software, while still having a
   consistent (mp-)members available for older software.

   IRR registry software is RECOMMENDED to make the src-members
   attribute mandatory on all new as-set/route-set objects, and MAY make
   it required when modifying existing objects.

   For clarity, this may appear to conflict with the section on
   resolving (Section 2.3), which says IRR software must not consider
   (mp-)members when src-members is present.  However, that section is
   about resolving a query on IRR data, this section is about processing
   object creation and modification in software that is authoritative
   for the IRR registry.

   Example of a valid object:

   route-set: RS-EXAMPLE
   members: 192.0.2.0/24
   mp-members: 2001:db8::/32
   mp-members: RS-OTHER
   src-members: 192.0.2.0/24, RIPE::RS-OTHER, 2001:db8::/32
   source: EXAMPLE

                           Figure 2: Valid object

   Example of an invalid object:

   route-set: RS-EXAMPLE
   members: 192.0.2.0/24
   mp-members: 2001:db8::/36
   mp-members: RS-OTHER, RS-MPMBRONLY
   src-members: 192.0.2.0/24, RIPE::RS-OTHER
   src-members: NTTCOM::RS-SRCMBRONLY, 2001:db8::/32
   source: EXAMPLE

     Figure 3: Invalid object: inconsistent inclusion of RS-MPMBRONLY,
              NTTCOM::RS- SRCMBRONLY, and 200:db8::/36 vs /32

3.2.  Automatic generation of (mp-)members

   Managing multiple copies of the same records is tedious for users.
   Therefore, IRR registry software is RECOMMENDED to automatically fill
   (mp-)members, if not specified by the user, based on src-members, in
   authoritative objects, when the user creates or updates the object.

   Specifically, for authoritative IRR registries:




Romijn & Bensley         Expires 18 August 2025                 [Page 7]

Internet-Draft  Registry scoped members for RPSL set obj   February 2025


   *  It is RECOMMENDED that when creating/updating a route-set object
      with a src-members attribute, but without both a members and mp-
      members attribute, the software fills the mp-members attribute
      automatically with the contents of src-members, with the IRR
      registry prefix removed from references.

   *  It is RECOMMENDED that when creating/updating an as-set object
      with a src-members attribute, but without a members attribute, the
      software fills the members attribute automatically with the
      contents of src-members, with the IRR registry prefix removed from
      references.

   The registry MAY return an informational message to the user about
   the modifications.  The objects MUST NOT be modified if already
   submitted with any members or mp-members attribute, though the
   validation rules noted earlier (Section 3.1) MUST still be applied.
   Non-authoritative servers MUST NOT generate members or mp-members
   automatically.

   IRR registry software MUST NOT attempt to automatically derive src-
   members from (mp-)members, as this cannot be done reliably.

3.3.  Multiple references to the same primary key

   Adding a IRR registry scope to each reference syntactically allows a
   new behavior: having multiple references to the same RPSL primary
   key.  This is not permitted, and IRR registry software MUST reject
   this:

   as-set: AS-EXAMPLE
   src-members: RIPE::AS-OTHER, ARIN::AS-OTHER
   source: EXAMPLE

       Figure 4: Invalid object using multiple registry prefixes with
                         the same RPSL primary key

   The IRR registry software MUST verify that, without their registry
   prefix, all references from src-members are unique.

   This reduces ambiguity regarding backwards compatibility with
   (mp-)members described earlier.  If allowed, the attribute src-
   members: RIPE::AS-OTHER, ARIN::AS-OTHER would refer to two different
   sets, whereas the translation mp-members: AS-OTHER only refers to one
   set.







Romijn & Bensley         Expires 18 August 2025                 [Page 8]

Internet-Draft  Registry scoped members for RPSL set obj   February 2025


4.  IANA Considerations

   This memo includes no request to IANA.

5.  Security Considerations

   This document removes a potential security issue where routing policy
   could be manipulated by maliciously creating set objects, which could
   be used in favor of legitimate objects.

   While not a new issue, references between set objects can be
   circular, and software MUST detect such cases while resolving.  It is
   RECOMMENDED to also limit the depth or size of their resolving to
   prevent excessive resource use.

6.  Normative References

   [RFC2622]  Alaettinoglu, C., Villamizar, C., Gerich, E., Kessens, D.,
              Meyer, D., Bates, T., Karrenberg, D., and M. Terpstra,
              "Routing Policy Specification Language (RPSL)", RFC 2622,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2622, June 1999,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2622>.

   [RFC2725]  Villamizar, C., Alaettinoglu, C., Meyer, D., and S.
              Murphy, "Routing Policy System Security", RFC 2725,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2725, December 1999,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2725>.

   [RFC4012]  Blunk, L., Damas, J., Parent, F., and A. Robachevsky,
              "Routing Policy Specification Language next generation
              (RPSLng)", RFC 4012, DOI 10.17487/RFC4012, March 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4012>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Authors' Addresses

   Sasha Romijn
   Reliably Coded
   Amsterdam
   Netherlands



Romijn & Bensley         Expires 18 August 2025                 [Page 9]

Internet-Draft  Registry scoped members for RPSL set obj   February 2025


   Email: sasha@reliablycoded.nl


   James Bensley
   Inter.link GmbH
   Boxhagener Str. 80
   10245 Berlin
   Germany
   Email: james@inter.link










































Romijn & Bensley         Expires 18 August 2025                [Page 10]
